---
layout: post
title:  "Halloween 2024"
---

# The choice

For this Halloween, I was torn between four main options:
- Biblically accurate angel
- Jack Skellington
- Generic horror Scarecrow
- Skull kid from Majora's Mask

As a huge Legend of Zelda fan, I was pretty excited to do Skull kid and started right away on building the Majora's Mask which would be the main piece of this costume.

Followed a pretty good tutorial from _link_ cosplay and got the base shape of the mask made with EVA foam pretty quickly

 _photo_

Unfortunately I realized that the clothes and hat would be a bit of a pain to make and the mask itself needed a looot more details, so I left it in the hall of unfinished projects at my apartment. I'll write a post about it soon enough, even if only to document the partial progress.

With that aside, I starting looking into the other three options. I discarded the Scarecrow first because I would probably need to use a lot of burlap in the costume and this would be bad for two reasons: **expensive** and **itchy** (thanks for the warning Luciano).

The angel would be a fun costume, but apart from the headpiece, there wasn't much else to do, and I would have to wear a suit or something like that and it would be a bit _conceptual_.

_photos_

I had never watched _A Nightmare before Christmas_, but I knew a few of the characters from the movie and Jack seemed a good option. When I looked for a few videos on YouTube on how people have done this costume before, two main options seemed obvious, full-face white makeup or build a big head-piece as his head to wear. Since a white-skelletonny face would be a bit too similar to something _Dia de los Muertos_-y, I decided to build the big-ass Jack head (and it would way more fun as well).

# The Head

Two words ~~one nightmare~~: Paper Mache

Step one: Find a big baloon ✅

Step two: Find newspaper. Remember that you threw away all your newspaper one week before. 🫠

Step three: Suffer

Jokes aside, paper mache is supposed to work wonders for this project. After seeing a few videos, this is how I did:

1. Blow up baloon to a size that I think my head would fit and have some room. _pic_
2. Cut newspaper to strips
3. Pour the Paper Mache pre-made glue from Panduro on container
4. Wet the whole strip with the glue, both sides (Wipe excess off with fingers)
5. Glue it to the baloon
6. Repeat ad infinitum steps 4 and 5 until you made a whole single layer
7. Wait for it to dry
8. Repeat

Todo: 
- Seal the head somehow (epoxy?)
- Cut off eyes and mouth
- Paint
- (maybe) Add a helmet inside so I can wear it
- Add black cloth to eyes/mouth opening


## Lessons learned

Using a painting brush to apply glue is just waste of time, just dip the whole thing in the glue mix and wipe excess off.

Don't wait too many days to do the first few layers after blowing up the baloon, it WILL deflate over the days and if the newspaper is not sturdy enough with a few layers already, it WILL deform and become all wonky.

Use a blow drier to dry one layer if you want to do more in a row and don't want to wait a whole day for it to air dry.

# The clothes

A quick visit to Erikshjälpen and I found a few smokings that looked good and were pretty cheap (like 160 SEK). Got one that fitted me, but unfortunately it doesn't have the tail part (frack på svenska), so I'll have to make something and sew/glue it to the back. Or I could probably find a used one from the students in Lund.

To-do:
- Little tail for the smoking
- Paint white lines on smoking and pants

# The tie

To do

# The hands

Options:
- Regular black glove with bones painted
- Buy an articulated finger thingy from Amazon +++
- Make an articulated finger thingy (3d printed/cardboard) ---
    - A LOT of work
